[Applause]
[Music]
for any of you who have visited or lived
in New York City these shots might start
to look familiar
this is Central Park one of the most
beautifully designed public spaces in
America but to anyone who hasn't visited
these images can't really fully convey
to really understand Central Park you
have to physically be there well the
same is true of the music which my
brother and I composed and mapped
specifically for Central Park
I'd like to talk to you today a little
bit about the work than my brother Hayes
and I are doing
that's us there that's both of us
actually specifically about a concept
that we've been developing over the last
few years this idea of location-aware
music now my brother and I were
musicians and music producers we've been
working together since well since we
were kids really but recently we've
become more and more interested in
projects where art and technology
intersect from creating site-specific
audio and video installation to
engineering interactive concerts but
today I want to focus on this concept of
composition for physical space but
before I go too much further into that
let me tell you a little bit about how
we got started with this idea my brother
and I were living in New York City when
the artist Christo and jean-claude did
their temporary installation the gates
in Central Park hundreds of these
brightly colored sculptures decorated
the park for a number of weeks
and unlike work that's exhibited in a
more neutral space like on the walls of
a gallery or a museum this is work that
was really in dialog with this place and
in a lot of ways the gates was really a
celebration of Frederick Olmsted's
incredible design this is an experience
that stayed with us for a long time and
years later my brother and I moved back
to Washington DC and we started to ask
the question would it be possible in the
same way that the gates responded to the
physical layout of the park to compose
music for a landscape which brought us
to this
[Music]
on Memorial Day we released the National
Mall a location-aware album released
exclusively as a mobile app that uses
the device's built-in GPS functionality
to sonically map the entire park in our
hometown of Washington DC hundreds of
musical segments are geotagged
throughout the entire park so that as a
listener traverses the landscape a
musical score is actually unfolding
around them so this is not a playlist or
a list of songs intended for the park
but rather an array of distinct melodies
and rhythms that fit together like
pieces of a puzzle and blend seamlessly
based on the listeners chosen trajectory
so kind of think of this as a
choose-your-own-adventure of an album
let's take a closer look let's look at
one example here so using the app as you
make your way towards the ground
surrounding the Washington Monument you
hear the sound of instruments warming up
which then gives way to the Sandow moves
of mellotron spelling out a very simple
melody
this is then joined by the sound of
sweeping violins
keep walking and a full choir joins in
until you finally reach the top of the
hill and you're hearing the sounds of
proms and fireworks and all sorts of
musical craziness as if all of these
sounds are radiating out from this giant
obelisk that punctuate the center of the
park but were you to walk in the
opposite direction its entire sequence
in Reverse and were you to actually exit
the perimeter of the park the music
would fade the silence and the play
button would disappear where sometimes
contacted by people in other parts of
the world who can't travel to the United
States but would like to hear this
record well unlike a normal album we
haven't been able to accommodate this
request when they ask for a CD or an mp3
version we just can't make that happen
and the reason is is because this isn't
a promotional app or a game to promote
or accompany the release of a
traditional record in this case the app
is the work itself and the architecture
of the landscape is intrinsic to the
listening experience six months later we
did a location-aware album for Central
Park a park that is over two times the
size of the National Mall with music
spanning from the sheep's meadow to the
ramble to the reservoir currently my
brother and I are working on projects
all over the country but last spring we
started a project here actually at
Stanford's experimental media art
department where we're creating our
largest location where album to date one
that will span the entirety of highway
one here on the Pacific coast but what
we're doing integrating GPS with music
is really just one idea but it speaks to
a larger vision for a music industry
that sometimes struggled to find its
footing in this digital age that they
begin to see these new technologies not
simply as ways of adding bells and
whistles to an existing model but to
dream up entirely new ways for people to
interact with and experience music thank
you
[Applause]